# Wistia Video Security

`<style float-right>`{{:locks.jpeg?}}`</style>`At Wistia, your account security is paramount to us.  You are entrusting us with critical sales, marketing, and project information, and we take that very seriously.
\\
\\
To that end, we've taken many steps to make sure your videos are as secure as possible:
\\
\\
The Wistia accounts have designed to be completely private and secure. Wistia accounts are not crawled by search engines. Private activation links (sent through emails) are only good for one use - they cannot be passed along.
\\
\\
In addition to standard HTML and oEmbed codes, we've also created javascript embed codes for Wistia videos.  Javascript embed codes provide an additional layer of security for your videos. Email `<support@wistia.com>` to request javascript embeds turned on.
\\
\\
Our [domain restriction]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/blog/stay-right-where-you-are-video-embed-domain-restrictions-are-here/.html) feature ensures your video can only be played on specific domains.  To use domain restrictions, check out the documentation [here]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/domain-restrictions.html).
\\
\\
With all that said, we recognize it is extremely difficult if not impossible to guarantee your videos will remain secure.  As we always say: [if you can see it, you can steal it]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/blog/dirty-web-video-secret-if-you-can-see-it-you-can-steal-it/.html), and if you aren't comfortable sharing it by e-mail, you might not want to share it with web video.
\\
We are always happy to speak with you about your specific project and what security settings might make the most sense for you.  Please give us a call, 888-494-7842 or email us at `<support@wistia.com>` if you have any questions or want to discuss further.
\\
\\

