---
title: Wistia Video Security
layout: post
category: Quick Guides
---

`<style float-right>`{{:wistia_swoosh.png}}`</style>`At Wistia, we take security seriously. We know that keeping your data safe, available,
and backed up is critical when trusting a service provider with your data. We don't
expect anything less from our vendors and neither should you. Below is an overview of
our external and internal security policies and procedures so that you can relax and
focus on what you do best – running your business.
\\
\\
From catastrophe planning to low level encryption of credentials, Wistia's focus on security allows your business to have peace of mind that your content is being protected. Work with confidence, Wistia has you covered.
\\
\\
If you are interested in the technical specs of our security procedures, please download our [Wistia Security Overview [PDF]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/documents/wistia_security.pdf.html)].

----

\\
From a product perspective, we're continually taking steps to make your videos as secure as possible:
\\
\\
The Wistia accounts have been designed to be completely private. Wistia accounts are not crawled by search engines. Private activation links (sent through emails) are only good for one use - they cannot be passed along.
\\
\\
Our [domain restriction]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/blog/stay-right-where-you-are-video-embed-domain-restrictions-are-here/.html) feature ensures your video can only be played on specific domains.  To use domain restrictions, check out the documentation [here]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/domain-restrictions.html).
\\
\\
With all that said, we recognize it is extremely difficult if not impossible to guarantee your videos will remain secure.  As we always say: [if you can see it, you can steal it]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/blog/dirty-web-video-secret-if-you-can-see-it-you-can-steal-it/.html), and if you aren't comfortable sharing it by e-mail, you might not want to share it with web video.
\\
\\
We are happy to speak about your specific project and what security settings might make the most sense for you.  Email us at `<support@wistia.com>` if you have any questions or want to discuss further.
\\
\\

