---
title: Clicky
layout: post
category: Integrations
---

`<style float-left>`{{:clicky.gif}}`</style>` Clicky Web Analytics are a great tool to track your webpage or blog's real-time performance with a variety of metrics.  We use their dashboards to track visitors, how they found us, and what actions they are taking on our sites.  For more on this, check out our blog post on [reasons we love Clicky]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/blog/why-wistia-loves-clicky/.html).  
\\
\\
Using some simple javascript, you can add video view tracking to your content dashboard in Clicky.  Let's get started!
\\
### Step 1. Embed Your Video into a Public Webpage

The first step is using the embed codes for your video to display it on your webpage (or blog, e-commerce site, etc.)  For more info on this, please check out our documentation on [embedding your videos]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://wistia.com/doc/sharing#embed_a_video_on_your_website.html).

**An important note, for Clicky and your video to be able to interact, you'll need to choose the API embed code from the Embed Type section of the Super Embed Builder.**
\\
\\
\\
### Step 2. Add Clicky Tracking to Your Page

The next step is creating an account with Clicky and adding your website to your account tracking.  To create Clicky account, [head over to the Clicky website]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://getclicky.com.html).
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:clicky-user.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
Once you have your account set up, adding a website to track is easy to do.  Starting on your Clicky user profile (which you can find at https://secure.getclicky.com/user), click the "Add New Site" button.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:clicky-new-site.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
Enter the site URL into the box, as shown here.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:clicky-submit.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
On the submission page, check to be sure your information is correct, and enter any custom settings into the "Advanced Settings" page.  Then, click the link to the tracking code page.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:clicky-trackingcode.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
On the tracking code page, select and copy the code, and paste it into the HTML on your webpage.  You're all set and ready to start tracking real-time stats using Clicky!
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
### Step 3. Start Tracking Video Views With Clicky

It's time to start tracking video views in your Clicky dashboard.  We've created a simple Javascript function to help you do this. This code should follow each Wistia embed on your page, updated with the ID #, URL, and title of the video.
\\
\\
\\
\\
Copy-able version:

	
	`<script type="text/javascript">`
	wistiaEmbed.bind("play", function() {
	  clicky.video('play',0, 'http://www.mysite.com/mypage/#video', 'Test Video');
	  });
	`</script>`


\\
\\

**bonus:** to track the finish viewing stats as well, use wistiaEmbed.bind("end", yourFunction).
\\
\\
\\
### Step 4. Check Your Stats

To find your video view stats in your Clicky account, select the "Content" tab from the left-hand bar, and then select "video".  Your video stats should now appear!
\\
\\
If you have any questions about integrating video view stats into your Clicky account dashboard, drop us an email at `<support@wistia.com>`
\\
\\


