---
title: Wistia &amp; oEmbed
layout: post
category: For Developers
for_developers: true
post_intro: <p>oEmbed is a simple API to get information about embedded content on a URL.</p><p>For Wistia, it's a great way to programmatically get embed codes for videos if you have their URLs.</p>
description: oEmbed is a simple API to get information about embedded content on a URL. For Wistia, it's a great way to programmatically get embed codes for videos if you have their URLs.
---

## The endpoint

Our oEmbed endpoint is: <span class="code">http://fast.wistia.com/oembed</span>

Currently, our oEmbed endpoint recognizes two URL formats:
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Example URL</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>iframe embed code URLs</td>
      <td>http://fast.wistia.com/embed/iframe/b0767e8ebb?version=v1&controlsVisibleOnLoad=true&playerColor=aae3d8</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>iframed playlist URLs</td>
      <td>http://fast.wistia.com/embed/playlists/fbe3880a4e?theme=trime&version=v1
&videoOptions%5BvideoHeight%5D=360&videoOptions%5BvideoWidth%5D=640</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Public media URLs</td>
      <td>http://home.wistia.com/medias/e4a27b971d</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

It's likely we'll add more URLs to this list in the future.

---

## The regex

If you're looking to automatically detect Wistia URLs and run them against our endpoint, we recommend using this regular expression:

<pre><code class='language-markup'>
/https?:\/\/(.+)?(wistia\.com|wi\.st)\/(medias|embed)\/.*/
</code></pre>


Or if you don't speak regex, here's what we're matching:

<pre><code class="language-markup">
http(s)://*wistia.com/medias/*
http(s)://*wistia.com/embed/*
http(s)://*wi.st/medias/*
http(s)://*wi.st/embed/*
</code></pre>

Note, it's likely we'll add support for more URLs in the future so feel free to use a more general regular expression so you don't miss out on future enhancements! Perhaps this:

<pre><code class="language-markup">
/https?:\/\/(.+)?(wistia\.com|wi\.st)\/.*/
</code></pre>

---

## An example

Get the embed code and some information for a video at ''http://home.wistia.com/m/NI3bSQ'' in JSON format:

<pre><code class="language-markup">
curl "http://fast.wistia.com/oembed?url=http://home.wistia.com/medias/e4a27b971d"
</code></pre>

This returns:

<pre><code class="language-markup">
{
  "version":"1.0",
  "type":"video",
  "html":"&lt;iframe src=\"http://fast.wistia.com/embed/iframe/e4a27b971d?version=v1&videoHeight=360&videoWidth=640\" allowtransparency=\"true\" frameborder=\"0\" scrolling=\"no\" class=\"wistia_embed\" name=\"wistia_embed\" width=\"640\" height=\"360\"&gt;&lt;/iframe&gt;",
  "width":640,
  "height":360,
  "provider_name":"Wistia, Inc.",
  "provider_url":"http://wistia.com",
  "title":"Brendan - Make It Clap",
  "thumbnail_url":"http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/2d2c14e15face1e0cc7aac98ebd5b6f040b950b5.jpg?image_crop_resized=100x60",
  "thumbnail_width":100,
  "thumbnail_height":60
}
</code></pre>

If you're looking for XML instead of JSON, use: <span class="code">http://fast.wistia.com/oembed.xml</span>

For all the fine details about the options supported, see the official [oEmbed spec](http://oembed.com).

---

## Parameters

Our endpoint supports all the options detailed at oembed.com.

The required url parameter that's passed in supports all the options detailed in the [Player API](/player-api.html).

We also accept some additional parameters that can change the output of the embed code:

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>callback</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Only application to JSON requests. When specified, json is wrapped in a javascript function given by the callback param. This is to facilitate JSONP requests.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>embedType</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Only applicable to videos and playlists. Accepts "iframe", "api", "seo", "popover", "playlist_iframe", and "playlist_api".</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>handle</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Only applicable to "api", "seo", and "playlist_api" embed types. Sets the javascript handle. Default is "wistiaEmbed" for medias and "wistiaPlaylist" for playlists.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>height</td>
      <td>integer</td>
      <td>The requested height of the video embed. Defaults to the native size of the video or 640, whichever is smaller.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>popoverHeight</td>
      <td>integer</td>
      <td>Only applicable to "popover" embed type. The requested height of the popover. Defaults to maintain the correct aspect ratio, with respect to the width.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>popoverWidth</td>
      <td>integer</td>
      <td>Only applicable to "popover" embed type. The requested width of the popover. Defaults to 150.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ssl</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Determines whether the embed code should use https. Defaults to false.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>width</td>
      <td>integer</td>
      <td>The requested width of the video embed. Defaults to the native size of the video or 360, whichever is smaller.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

---

## Troubleshooting

  1. If an invalid URL (one that doesn't match our regular expression above) is given, the endpoint will return <span class="code">404 Not Found</span>.
  2. If an unparseable URL is given in the url param, the endpoint will return <span class="code">404 Not Found</span>.
  3. If a media is found but has no available embed code, the endpoint will return <span class="code">501 Not Implemented</span>. Video, Audio, and Document files all currently implement oembeds.
  4. If a playlist is found but has no videos, the endpoint will return <span class="code">501 Not Implemented</span>.
  5. If a maxwidth or maxheight forces a change to the media's dimensions, it is ''not'' guaranteed to maintain the correct aspect ratio (you may see horizontal black bars above or below the video). If you expect this to happen, you should make use of the [videoFoam](/player-api.html) option.

---

## Make Your Life Easier

If you're contemplating doing an oEmbed implementation with Wistia (or any oEmbed provider for that matter), we strongly recommend checking out [Embedly](http://embed.ly). By integrating with them you'll have immediate access to over 100 oEmbed providers. They also have great documentation and ready-made libraries for every popular language, plus they're just nice guys!
