# Media

### How to embed a video

To embed a video on your website, see the Sharing section entitled ["Embed a video on your website"]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/sharing#Embed a video on your website.html).
\\
\\
### How to edit the name of a media

Once you are on the page where the media is displayed, if you hover your mouse over the title of the project, you will see an "edit" indicator pop-up next to the title on the right.  Simple click anywhere on the project name and you will be in edit mode where you can make changes to the name.  When finished, simply hit return or click elsewhere on the page and your new media name will be saved.
\\

### How to invite an individual to view your video

To invite an individual to view your video within Wistia, see the Sharing section entitled ["Privately share video via email"]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/sharing#Privately share video via email.html).
\\
\\
### How to enable or prevent users from downloading media

`<style float-right>`{{:manage-permissions.png?180|}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
By default, contacts invited into Wistia are not permitted to download your media files.  A contact's ability to download files is controlled via permissions at the project level.  To adjust a contact's permissions for a particular project, go into that project and choose "Manage permissions" from the Project Actions menu.
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-left>`{{:permissions-dialog.png?400|}}`</style>`
After clicking the "Manage permissions" option, the following dialog will be shown with a matrix of permissions for your contacts.  To enable a particular contact to download your media files, check the "Download" box for that contact.  To revoke download permissions for a contact, uncheck the "Download" box.  After setting the permissions appropriately, hit the "Update Permissions" button at the bottom of the dialog.

Please note that the above action changes the permissions for a contact on a particular project.  If the contact is shared on other projects, their permissions on those other projects will not be affected.
\\
\\
### How to change the thumbnail image on a video

The thumbnail image for a video can be set in one of two ways:
 1.  A frame can be chosen from the video
 2.  An image can be uploaded to be used as the thumbnail image

Both methods of changing the thumbnail image can be accessed from the same point in the application.  First, go to the page where the video is displayed.   Then, from the Media Actions menu, choose "Change Thumbnail".  

`<style float-right>`{{:change-thumbnail.png?400|}}`</style>` **1. Choosing a frame -** You can select a frame from the video to be the thumbnail for the video.  To do this, seek to the point in the video where the frame you want to use is displayed in the video player.  Then, click the "Set current frame as thumbnail" button.

**2. Upload thumbnail -** You always have the option to upload a new image as the thumbnail image for a video.  Simply click the "Choose file" button and find the file on your local computer.  When done, hit the "Upload thumbnail" button and the old video thumbnail will be replaced with your new one.
\\

### What are timecoded comments?

Timecoded comments allow the user to link a comment on a video to a particular time in the video.  The timecode is captured and stored with the comment such that when another user views the comment, they can click on the time code, the video will skip directly to the point in the video where the comment was made.

`<style center>`{{:timecoded-comment.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\
### How to make a timecoded comment

To make a timecoded comment, pause the video at the time to which you wish the comment to be linked.  Then, simply check the box next to the Post Comment button which says "Link comment to current time in video".  Once the box is checked and the comment has been written, click the Post comment button and your comment will be saved.

`<style center>`{{:make-comment.png?450|}}  `</style>`
\\
### Can I turn off comments for videos and other media?

Yes. Comments can be disabled/enabled at the project level.  See ["How to disable comments for a project"]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/managing_projects_media_and_contacts#How to disable comments for a project.html) to learn how.
\\
### How to add a description to your video

To add a description to your video, first go to the page where the video can be viewed.  Now, choose "Add Sidebar Element" from the Media Actions menu.  This will bring up a dialog box.  Press the "Add" button for the Description sidebar element.
`<style center>`{{:add-sidebar.png?400|}}`</style>`
\\

`<style float-right>`{{:description.png?180|}}`</style>`

A new description element will now show up below the Media Actions menu.  Clicking the "Edit" button below the Description element will bring up the rich-text editor.  Within the rich-text editor, you can edit the description visually or directly edit the source HTML for the description. When finished editing, click the "Save" button below the Description element and your changes will be saved.
\\
### How to see tracking statistics for my video

If you have embedded your video on your website, please see ["How to view tracking statistics for my video: Statistics for embedded videos"]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/tracking-basic#Statistics for embedded videos.html).

If you have shared video with people via email and/or Project Link, please see ["How to view tracking statistics for my video: Statistics for user sessions"]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/tracking-basic#Statistics for user sessions.html).
### How to copy a video to another project

`<style float-right>`{{:copy_media.png|}}`</style>`Go to the project you wish to copy the video to.  Under the Project Actions menu, choose the "Copy media" option.  This will open up the Copy Media panel in the right-hand sidebar.  From the drop-down menu in the Copy Media panel, choose the project from which you wish to copy media.  Once the project is selected in the Copy Media panel, all of the media from that project will be displayed below the drop down box.  Simply click on the the media in the Copy Media panel to copy it to the current project.
\\
\\
\\
