# Heatmaps

## What is a Video Heatmap?

`<style float-left s25>`A video heatmap is a graphical representation of a viewer watching your video.  The video heatmap is shown as a color coded timeline of your video where the colors represent the number of times a viewer has watched a particular part of your video. White means that portion of the video was not watched and green tells you that the viewer watched that part exactly once.  Yellow, orange, light red, and dark red show you that the viewer watched that part of the video two, three, four, or five times respectively.  Next to each heatmap is shown the total percentage of the video that viewer watched (parts watched multiple times are only counted once).\\
\\
{{:heatmap-ex.png|}}
`</style>`
\\
## What is an Audience Engagement Graph?

`<style float-right>`{{:engagement-graph.png?400|}}`</style>`Audience Engagement Graphs show how the audience as a whole has viewed your video, whereas [Video Heatmaps]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/tracking_and_alerts#What is a Video Heatmap?.html) show how an individual watched your video. 

By looking at the Audience Engagement Graph, you can see where your audience rewinds and watches multiple times and when they stop watching.  Areas where the graph line rises indicate your audience rewinding and watching again; conversely, areas where the graph line drops off significantly indicates where your audience is losing interest.  This information can help you both optimize this video as well as guide you in making videos to better engage your audience in the future.

Another particularly useful metric with the engagement graph is the "percentage of visitors that clicked play".  This metric is the number of people that played your video divided by the unique visitors that came to the page containing the video (expressed as a percentage).  This metric helps you understand things such as the positioning of your video on the page or the thumbnail image used for the video affects whether users make the commitment to watch your video. 
\\
