## Wistia Data API

The Wistia data API gives you all kinds of programmatic access to your Wistia account. The data is available in either JSON or XML format over HTTP. Here's what's available:


*  Projects
    * [List]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-index.html)
    * [Show]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-show.html)
    * [Create]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-create.html)
    * [Update]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-update.html)
    * [Delete]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-destroy.html)
    * [Copy]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-copy.html)
    * Sharings
      * [List]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-sharings-index.html)
      * [Show]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-sharings-show.html)
      * [Create]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-sharings-create.html)
      * [Update]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-sharings-update.html)
      * [Delete]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-project-sharings-delete.html)

*  Medias
    * [List]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-index.html)
    * [Show]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-show.html)
    * [Update]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-update.html)
    * [Delete]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-destroy.html)
    * [Copy]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-copy.html)
    * [Show Stats]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-stats.html)
    * [Embed]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-media-embed.html)

Please note that there is currently **no way to create medias *directly* through the API**.  However, if you are building an application that uses Wistia, you can still allow your users to upload to Wistia via the [upload widget]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/upload-widget.html).

## Extras


*  [API Asset URLs -- Tips & Tricks]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-asset-urls.html)

*  [wistia-api ruby gem]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/https///github.com/wistia/wistia-api.html)


## Before your start

Before delving into the specifics of using the API, there are some general concepts that you should be aware of:

#### Authentication

*  You must use **SSL** (https instead of http) to access the API.

*  The API uses **HTTP Basic authentication** ((See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication for more details.)) to authorize access to the information.  The user name is "api", and you can get your API password by [enabling API access for your account]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-enable.html).

#### JSON vs. XML

The request examples retrieve the data in **JSON** ((See http://www.json.org/)) format.  If you would like the data in **XML** format, change the extension of the request from "json" to "xml" (no quotes).

#### PUT and DELETE

Some HTTP clients are limited to sending GET and POST requests (e.g. HTML forms have this limitation).  You will notice, however, that many of the API calls only respond to **PUT** or **DELETE** requests.  In order to trigger these calls from a client that does not support **PUT** or **DELETE**, use a POST request and add a parameter named "_method" (no quotes) with a value of either "put" or "delete" (again, no quotes).

#### Rate Limit

The API has a rate limit at 100 requests per minute.  If there are more than 100 requests in a minute for a particular account, the service will respond with HTTP error 503 (Service Unavailable) and the Retry-After HTTP header will be set with a number of seconds to wait before trying again.

#### A Note About Versions

Although the URLs to the API imply that there will be different versions of the API available as we make changes to it, that does not mean that the API only changes when the version number changes.  In particular, we may add fields to the objects returned by the API, and we may add parameters to enable new features in the requests.  The API version will only change when we introduce **breaking changes**. (i.e. renaming a parameter, removing a field from the output, etc.)

#### Make sure you're enabled

Before using the API, you must [enable API access for your account]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/api-enable.html).


