# Sharing

## Introduction

Wistia allows you to both share your video privately, with specific individuals, or publicly on your website.  When sharing video privately, Wistia provides a turn-key environment where you can invite your audience in to view your content. When sharing publicly, Wistia provides embed codes which are used to put the video on your webpages.  In both cases, Wistia allows you to track, down to the second, how each individual is watching your video.
\\
## Private Sharing

### Privately share video via email
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:share-project.png?200|}}
`</style>`
This is the best sharing method to use if you want to:

*  Invite people to privately view your video, and

*  Track how each individual (by email address) watches your video
 
Once you have uploaded your videos to your project, from within the project hover over the "Project Actions" menu and choose the "Share Project" option.  \\
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-left>`{{:share-dialog.png?400|}}`</style>`Enter the emails of the people you'd like to invite in the "Share with" box.  Assign the permissions you'd like them to have for this project. You can allow them to upload, download original files, or share with others.  

You can also choose whether the user needs a password to access the content.  If you choose to require a password (more secure), the user will be prompted to create a password when they click on the link in the email.  In the future, the user will be required to enter their email and password in order to gain access to the content that has been shared with them.  If no password is required, the user will be taken directly to the project upon clicking the link.

Next, you can customize an email that will be sent to the people you are inviting.  Once you click the "Share" button they will be sent the email, containing your personalized message as well as a customized link that will allow them to access your project.
\\
### Privately share video by link

`<style float-right>`{{:share-project.png?200|}}
`</style>`This is the best sharing method to use if you want to:

*  Send out a single link from your own email account to a group people to allow them to view your video

*  Track how people watch your video, but are less concerned about associating viewing with a viewer's email address
 
Once you have uploaded your videos to your project, from within the project hover over the "Project Actions" menu and choose the "Share Project" option.  \\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-left>`{{:share_by_link.png?400|}}`</style>`When the dialog appears choose the tab which says "Share by Link".  The screen to the left will be seen.  To create a link which can be pasted into an email, click the "Enable sharing by link for this project" button.
\\
\\
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:share-by-link-2.png?400|}}`</style>`
Once the button has been clicked, the link will appear.  You can simply copy this link and paste it into an email or put it on a webpage.  When users click on this link, they will automatically be taken into this Wistia project.

If the "Disable sharing by link for this project" is clicked the previous project link will no longer be active.  Users that click on a disabled link will be denied access to your content. 
\\
## Public sharing

### Embed a video on your website

`<style float-right>`{{:embed-action.png?200|}}`</style>`
This is the best sharing method to use if you want to:

*  Add video to your website, blog, or wiki

*  Track how your audience as a whole watches your video

*  Track how individuals watch your video
 
When on the page with the video you want to embed, hover your mouse over the "Media Actions" menu and choose "Embed".  
\\
\\
\\
\\
[{{:embed-dialog.png ]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/embed-video.html)
This will bring up a dialog which contains the embed code for this video.  Changing either one of the dimensions will cause the other dimension to also be changed, maintaining your video's aspect ratio.  
\\
\\
Once you have the video sized appropriately for your webpage and the appropriate options checked, click in the "Embed Code" box and copy all of the HTML code.  This code can then be pasted directly into the HTML document of the webpage where you wish to embed the video.  

Once you have pasted the embed code into the HTML document and saved it, reload the page in your web browser and the video should then display.  

To view the statistics for your embedded video, select the "Embed tracking" option under the "Stats" tab at the top of any page in your Wistia account.

NOTE: Only managers can embed video and only on projects they control.

\\
\\
\\
\\

#### oEmbed-based Embedding

On many blogging and content management platforms, you can also use oEmbed ((http://www.oembed.com)) for embedding videos in your site.  This allows you to paste a link into your site which will be turned into the embedded video.  For Wordpress specifically, see our [Wistia and Wordpress]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/wordpress.html) page.  For more information on oEmbed links in general, see our [oEmbed page]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/oembed.html).

### Create a video playlist

`<style float-right>`{{:playlist-menu.png?200|}}`</style>`Video playlists are a great way to embed multiple videos on your website through a single embed.  Additionally, Wistia's playlists allow you to add and remove content dynamically to your playlist after it has been embedded.

In Wistia, a playlist is tied to a project in your Wistia account.  When embedded, the playlist will automatically show all of the videos contained in the project.  If videos are added to the project, those videos will automatically show up in the playlist.  If the videos are re-ordered in the project, the videos in the playlist will be re-ordered accordingly.  And, if the titles of the videos in the project are changed....you guessed it, the titles of the videos in the playlist will change as well.

To get started, go into a project in your Wistia account you wish to create a playlist for.  Next, select "Playlist embed" from the Project Actions menu as shown on the right.

Once you have selected the "Playlist embed" option, you will be taken to a page where you can customize your playlist and get the embed code.  An example of this customization screen can be seen below.
\\
\\
`<style center>`{{:playlist-customize1.jpg|}}`</style>`

On this screen you can choose the theme you want to use, the size for the embedded playlist, as well as whether the playlist will automatically play the next video when the user reaches the end of the current video.

In addition to the 'trim' theme shown in the above screenshot, there is also a 'steam' theme which can be seen below:

`<style center>`{{:playlist-customize2.jpg|}}`</style>`

You will notice the presence of section tabs on the above playlist.  In Wistia, these tabs correspond to sections in a Wistia project.  To create a new tab on your playlist, simple create a new section in your Wistia project for that playlist and add videos to it.  These videos will then appear in that tab in your playlist.


----
\\
~~DISQUS~~
