# Projects

### What the heck is a Project?

A project is Wistia's method for grouping related media. You might create a project with all the training videos for your organization, or all the sales materials related to a specific product. You can think of Projects like the folders on your local computer: they are for storing your stuff in a logical manner.  There are lots of uses and functions within projects, which we will cover below.
\\
\\
### How to create a project?

`<style float-right>`{{:new-project.png|}}`</style>`
To create a project, login as a manager, hover over the "Actions" menu on the "My Projects" page, and select "New Project".  Once you click "New Project", you will immediately be taken into the new project where you can upload content, invite contacts, and edit the project name.
\\
\\
### How to edit the name of a project?

Once you are inside the project, if you hover your mouse over the title of the project, you will see an "edit" indicator pop-up next to the title on the right.  Simple click anywhere on the project name and you will be in edit mode where you can make changes to the name.  When finished, simply hit return or click elsewhere on the page and your new project name will be saved.

### How to delete a project?

`<style float-right>`{{:delete-project.png?150|}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
To delete a project, go into the project and put your mouse over the Project Actions menu.  Select the "Delete Project".  You will be asked if you are sure you want to delete the project, select "OK".

\\
\\
\\
### How to disable comments for a project

To turn off comments (preventing users from seeing or making comments), go into the project and select "Project Settings" from the Project Actions menu.  A "Project Settings" dialog will appear.  Select the "Off" option for the Comments setting and click the "Save Settings" button.  Comments are now disabled for the project.
\\
`<style center>`{{:comments-off.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\
### What is a project section?

Project sections allow you to organize media within a project.  Media can be put into project sections and the sections can then expanded or collapsed to provide a cleaner experience for projects with many media. \\
`<style center>`{{:sections.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\

### How to put media into a project section

Once a section has been created you can drag-and-drop media from other parts of the project into that section.  Simply put your mouse over the media you want to move, click and hold the left mouse button, and then drag the media to the section you wish to place it in.  The image below shows a media being dragged and dropped into a section.\\
`<style center>`{{:section-dnd.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\
### How to target sections for upload

When uploading new media into a project with many sections and other media items, it can be very useful to upload directly to one of your sections.  To do this, simply click the target icon on the right-hand side of the section header and it will turn from gray to red.  While this target icon is red, all media uploaded or copied into the project will automatically be placed in this section.
`<style center>`{{:target-section.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\
### How to change permissions for users on a project

`<style float-right>`{{:manage-permissions.png?180|}}`</style>`
\\
\\
While permissions are initially set when a contact is invited to a project, often managers will want to change those permissions after the initial invite.  To do this, first select "Manage Permissions" from the Project Actions menu.
\\
\\
This will bring up a dialog box that shows a matrix of contacts shared on that project and the permissions that those contacts have.  Simply check the boxes appropriately to provide the contacts with the permissions you desire.  When finished, click the "Update Permissions" button at the bottom of the dialog and your changes will be saved.
`<style center>`{{:permissions-dialog.png?450|}}`</style>`
\\

### How to add a description to your project

To add a description to your project, first go to the project page.  Now, choose "Add Sidebar Element" from the Projcet Actions menu.  This will bring up a dialog box.  Press the "Add" button for the Description sidebar element.
`<style center>`{{:add-sidebar.png?400|}}`</style>`
\\

`<style float-right>`{{:description.png?180|}}`</style>`

A new description element will now show up below the Media Actions menu.  Clicking the "Edit" button below the Description element will bring up the rich-text editor.  Within the rich-text editor, you can edit the description visually or directly edit the source HTML for the description. When finished editing, click the "Save" button below the Description element and your changes will be saved.
\\
\\
\\
