---
title: Wistia and Joomla
layout: post
category: Embedding
---

`<style float-left>`{{:joomla_logo.jpg?150}}`</style>`
\\
\\
[Joomla]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/http://www.joomla.org/.html) is an open-sourced platform that is very useful for managing content dynamically. Embedding your video on Joomla keeps visitors inside of your site experience, instead of navigating through public video communities.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
----

## Embedding Wistia Video into Joomla

Embedding your Wistia video into Joomla can be accomplished using the HTML or iframe embed codes provided through your Wistia account.  For more on generating embed codes, please read [the guide on embedding]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/public_sharing.html). There are also some settings modifications that need to be made to ensure the Joomla editor accepts Wistia embed codes.
\\
\\
### iframe Embed Codes

\\
In the 'Plugin Parameters' area of your account, enter the 'Media Support' section, and then select "yes" for 'Allow iframes'.  This will enable iframe support for your Joomla editor.  Then, copy-and-paste the Wistia iframe embed code for the video you'd like to add to a Joomla page into the Joomla editor.
\\
\\
### HTML Embed Codes

Enabling Wistia HTML embed codes in Joomla requires a few additional steps.  However, if you'd like to use [transcripts]({{ site.url }}/{{ page.lang }}/transcripts.html) for your Wistia videos, HTML embed codes are currently the best method.
\\
\\
`<style float-right>`{{:joomla1.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
In the 'Plugin Parameters' area of your account, enter the 'Media Support' section, and then make the following changes (refer to image on the right).  Turn 'Strict XHTML Flash' to NO, HTML5 Audio/Video to YES, and Object/Embed elements to YES.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
Then, in the 'Editor Parameters', ensure that 'Allow Javascript' is set to YES.
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
### For Transcripts

`<style float-right>`{{:joomla2.png}}`</style>`
\\
\\
Transcripts require one additional change to the Custom Configurations Field in your Joomla account.  Please add the following variables to this field:
\\
extended_valid_elements:"p3-transcript[*]";
custom_elements:"p3-transcript"
\\
Refer to the image for help on this!

\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
A note for readers: this documentation article was sourced from a thread on Joomla support (http://www.joomlacontenteditor.net/forum/jce-editor/code-is-changing-between-code-wysiwyg-views/47964).  Images of the Joomla backend were taken from that article as well. Thanks very much to their administrators for their expertise.
\\
\\


